Hey everybody, welcome back to Boost Your
Income with Bootstrap WordPress, and
in this lecture we are going to be coding
and styling the sidebar and widgets.
[MUSIC]
All right,
now what we're going to do is code and
style our sidebar right here in the blog,
and the widgets within it.
So let's jump into our code editor.
In your blog.html,
right under the main tag, because
we want this to be within our row and
our container, let's add a comment here.
And I'm going to call this sidebar so
I can clearly see where it is.
And this is going to be an aside tag,
like so.
Got HTML5 tag.
Give that the class of col-sm-4.
And in here let's add,
let's do something cool here.
Let me show you another emit short cut.
So I want four widgets in this sidebar.
So I'm just gonna have four
divs with a class a widget.
So I'm just going to say this but
then times four.
I should spread that out and there we go.
And there is the mark up.
I'm gonna spread these
out just a little bit.
There we go.
And in here, the first one I'm
gonna have a level 4 heading and
say, Join our Mailing List.
After that, a paragraph tag.
Which will be keep up to
date with the latest news,
and we'll, in a strong tag here.
Whoops, send you something
special as a thank you.
All right?
And then after that,
I want to add a button.
A button tag.
And let's give it the class of btn
btn-success and btn-lg and also btn-block.
Lots of styles.
Let's give it the data toggle attribute.
And that will be modal,
because this button is going to toggle
the modal window that we
already have in our markup.
data-target, and the id was myModal.
And then in here, text will be,
Click here to subscribe.
Let's say that and then have a look.
There we go.
Right there in the side bar.
It's not styled yet, but
that's okay, but it looks good.
Let's see if it toggles our modal window.
Perfect.
All right, next widget.
I'm just going to put
a little comment here.
There we go.
Might as well do it for all of them.
It's kind of a habit of mine.
Perfect, okay?
Now I want a form and
that form will have the role of form,
class of search dash form.
These are attributes and classes.
And then we're gonna have an input
type of text that place holder will be,
search the blog.
Now what I want to do is I
want to give this input an ID.
I want to say sidebar search.
I want to do that because
I want a label here.
This is peerly for usability purposes for
sidebar-search and
the class will be SR-only for
screen reader only.
And now that won't show up in the sidebar,
the label, cuz I don't want it to.
But I want it to be there for
screen readers, so that's good.
Okay, next widget of a four heading,
and that will be about
bootstrap to WordPress and we're just
gonna have some lorem ipsum in here.
That should be good.
Let's do this much right there.
Good.
And next widget.
Level 4 heading.
Recent Posts.
And then we'll have
an unordered list with.
Five li items.
And there we'll have children,
which will be eight tags.
There we go.
Blog post #1.
This is just dummy text because.
This will actually be dynamic in
WordPress, but it's there just so
we could style it and
see what it looks like.
And I think I will need one more widget,
here we go.
And in here we will have a four heading.
And that will say categories.
UL.
We'll have six list items
with children that are a-tags.
And this will say category 1.
And then just dummy text
all the way through.
Okay.
Save that.
Let's have a look.
Here we go, here's our sidebar.
It doesn't look very good, but that's
why we will style it in CSS, right now.
Open your custom CSS and scroll down
to the section that we Labeled blog.
Believe we were in it.
There we go.
Right here, the first style post.
Let's also select widget, because we
want the widget to have the same style.
Let's see what that looks like.
There we go, getting there.
Now what I want to do is
scroll down under blog.
Let's go even before comments here.
And I want to add a section
specifically for widgets.
Cuz, we're gonna have a few styles here.
So, we're gonna select widget,
padding: 20px.
Let's also select widget h4.
And we'll say, margin: 0 0 10px,
padding: 0 0 10px,
border-bottom: solid 1px #ddd.
Then widget ul, list style none.
Margin 0.
Padding 0.
And then widget Ul,
li Margin 0 0 5 pixels.
And then we're gonna
select widget ul li:hover
when you hover over the list item.
I wanna just do a little thing here.
Let me just show you what it
looks like before I do it so
you can know as a reference.
So everything's looking pretty good so
far.
When I hover over these, I want them
to just kind of move to the right,
just a little bit.
A little animation, almost.
So when I hover,
I want the position to be relative, and
then margin, or sorry, left one pixel.
And that should do it.
There you go.
And you hover over these
links in the sidebar,
they'll just kind of move left or
move right, just a little bit.
And the other thing I noticed
was the form, the search form.
It didn't look very good.
So, we're going to style that.
We're going to scroll
ourselves all the way up
to the custom icons bright section.
There we go.
I believe that was actually
at the very bottom.
And after that, before media queries
I wanna add a section here for forms.
There we go.
Let's style some forms here.
There's a few things that I'd like to do.
There's a lot of styles that we're
gonna have to do for forms but
let's just do what we need right now.
So right off the bat I know I want
my labels to be display block and
font weight bold.
You're not going to see any of that yet
cause we don't have any forms that
have that but it's very simple,
you can imagine what that would look like.
Block level element and a bold.
Here's where we want to style
a few different things.
Our input elements.
So I want to style input text, email,
URL, password, and search, all the same.
So email, URL, password, and search.
I'm just kind of, we're not even
gonna be using most of these.
In fact, the only ones we're using
are text and possibly email.
It's just for scalability.
So when we build the site bigger,
as you build the theme bigger and
you add in a search input or
a password input you want to be
able to have them styled the same.
Also want the text area to
grab some of these styles.
Okay, color: 666, scary.
Border: 1px solid #ccc;
border-radius: 3px; You know me,
I can't go without making it
cross browser compatible.
Moz-border-radius: 3px; as well.
Okay.
And then we'll display: block; and
then we're going to do
webkit box sizing, and border box.
It's just, it's kind of a little fix.
Box sizing, border box,
basically it's to tell the browser
what the sizing properties,
width and height, should include.
So should it include the border, or
should it not include the border?
So basically,
the default value is content box.
We want the box sizes to be border box.
So when we say we want the element
to be 100%, we want it to be
100% including the borders, whereas if
you didn't have the borders Included.
Or, if it was default value content box,
then it would actually be wider than 100%.
And then we'd have to do some random
99.6 or 4 or whatever percent wide.
So box size and border box,
that means include the borders
within the width and height.
A little tip for you there.
Moz border box.
Sorry, moz box sizing, border box and
box sizing, border box.
Just want to cover everything
there width 100% C, and
padding six pixels, top and
bottom 12, left and right.
Here we go.
Say that.
Let's have a little look.
There we go, looking pretty good.
And that should be it for now.
We have a lot more styling that
we're gonna to do throughout
the rest of the course and
in upcoming lectures.
But that's it for now, we have our blog.
Our sidebar here, that we just did.
Looking pretty good.
And our main content, looks awesome.
Okay, so hang on tight, because we're
jumping into a new section now.
We're going to be styling
the actual posts.
Coding and styling the posts,
so it looks like this.
Pretty much the same,
but we're adding posts.
We have our comments.
We have the form and the comments here.
And it's more text, everything like that
so yeah, I'll see you in the next lecture.
[MUSIC]